---
slug: releases/0.8.14
title: Version 0.8.14
authors: koehlma
tags: [rugix, release, security, migration]
---

We are thrilled to announce the release of Rugix version 0.8.14! 🎉 Don't let the version number fool you, this release packs two game-changing features for embedded Linux OTA updates:

- Cryptographic integrity verification through embedded signatures.
- Out-of-the-box compatibility with Mender and RAUC.

<!-- truncate -->

## Embedded Signatures

While Rugix has long supported integrity verification using external signatures, version 0.8.14 introduces the ability to **embed cryptographic signatures directly into an update bundle**. Rugix Ctrl can now verify these signatures automatically during installation.

This verification mechanism is built on industry standards, including x509 certificates and the [Cryptographic Message Syntax (CMS) standard](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc5652). It fully supports certificate chains and integrates seamlessly with enterprise-grade certificate authorities and PKCS#11-based Hardware Security Modules (HSMs), empowering you to follow security best practices and keep your private keys safe.

With emerging regulations like the EU's Cyber Resilience Act, proving the integrity of software updates is no longer optional. Embedded signatures provide a robust solution to prevent malicious actors from compromising your devices. This makes Rugix Ctrl a key component in your device compliance strategy.

For more details, check out the [documentation on signed updates](/docs/ctrl/signed-updates).


## Compatibility with Mender and RAUC

Mender and RAUC are popular OTA update solutions for embedded Linux.
With this release, Rugix Ctrl becomes the *first* open-source OTA update solution to offer compatibility with both, freeing you from vendor lock-in.

Our Mender- and RAUC-compatible boot flows allow you to **seamlessly and safely migrate your existing device fleets from those solutions to Rugix Ctrl**.
This compatibility is a two-way street: not only does it enable a safe migration path *to* Rugix, but it also allows you to architect your system for a potential future migration *away* from Rugix, should your needs change.
Furthermore, you can now leverage the vast ecosystem of board integrations built for Mender and RAUC directly with Rugix Ctrl.

For a detailed comparison of Rugix Ctrl and other solutions, we invite you to review our [comparison table](/docs/ctrl/#comparison-to-other-solutions).
Rugix Ctrl excels by combining several powerful features in a single, open-source solution.
Its unique, container-inspired approach to [state management](/docs/ctrl/state-management) simplifies development, while its ability to stream updates from *any* source (not just HTTP servers) provides unparalleled flexibility.
Furthermore, Rugix Ctrl provides [best-in-class static delta updates](/blog/efficient-delta-updates) and is written in Rust for enhanced memory safety, a critical advantage for a security-sensitive component like an OTA updater.

Check out the [documentation on migrating to Rugix Ctrl](/docs/ctrl/migrating/).

## Get Started

Rugix 0.8.14 represents a major step forward in providing secure, flexible, and robust OTA updates for embedded systems. We encourage you to explore these new features and see how they can benefit your projects.
As always, we welcome your feedback, bug reports, and contributions on [GitHub](https://github.com/silitics/rugix).
